---
layout: post
title:  "Why Hugo?"
date:   2019-10-19 08:12:13 +1000
categories: jekyll update
---
We’ve looked at a few static site generators and we’ve decided on Hugo for a large website project of ours.

On our site, we present a large amount of information from a large government department. We have large hierarchical structure — the “Information Architecture”.  There many “landing” or “index” pages, with a list of pages underneath. We need to be able to show the whole site structure as a top nav menu. We need to show a breadcrumb trail at the top so users always know where they are in the structure. On the side, we need to show a list of sibling pages, and the parent page. The mobile view will display these items where needed.

We avoid any React-based generators. We don’t want anything to do with typescript. We love javascript the way it is. Typescript is an attempt to make the round peg of javascript fit in the square hole of object-oriented languages. We don’t care if javascript seems to lack polymorphism, inheritance, encapsulation. Javascript was designed to be a certain way, and that’s we I use it.

We like Vuepress a lot. We have a number of sites which are purely documentation, or are a web-based book in a readable format. Vuepress is great for this.

We also like Jekyll. This site is in Jekyll! Jekyll is good for blogs, where posts are ordered on a date-by-date basis. You can also make collections and list posts according to their collection. Or you can group posts according to keywords etc. This is great for certain types of sites, but not for ours. Sure, we might be able to make use of permalinks, data files and the site.pages variable. But all this needs to be hacked together. We need our content editors, who are not technically-minded, to be able to add/remove pages with as little friction as possible. 

Hexo is very similar to Jekyll, with the advantage of being fully developed in javascript (Jekyll’s weakness is it’s dependency on the Ruby ecosystem). 

Hugo satisfies our requirement of being able to directly use the file system to list sub-folders and sub-pages, and to recursively read up parent directories. 

However learning Hugo is difficult. Often pages seem to appear out of nowhere. Whenever we look at a Hugo theme to try to understand Hugo better, they seem to be implemented in a completely different way. Customising a theme seems almost as hard as making our own from scratch. And what do we do if we can’t find a theme that suits our Information Architecture? And where is the documentation on making a new theme anyway?

So we begin our journey with Hugo. We hope these posts will form a guide that will help others to get their own themes and their own sites up and running in a easy-to-understand way.